Adds doc covering the new alerts feature (#979)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/dashboard-guides/notifications.mdx

---
title: "Notifications"
description: Detailed description of the notifications options in RudderStack.
---

> RudderStack's notifications feature lets you turn on data delivery alerts for sources, cloud destinations, and warehouse destinations. Users may subscribe/unsubscribe to alerts for a particular resource once your admin enables alerts for the resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RudderStack's notifications feature lets you enable data delivery alerts for sources, cloud destinations, and warehouse destinations. You can  subscribe/unsubscribe to alerts for a particular resource once your admin enables the alerts for that resource.
```

## Enable notifications per connection

> To turn on the alert service, you must have <Link to="/dashboard-guides/user-management/#role-permissions">admin permissions</Link>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the alerting service, you must have <Link to="/dashboard-guides/user-management/#role-permissions">admin permissions</Link>.
```

1. Navigate to your desired source or destination in the RudderStack dashboard.

> 2. Click the *Settings* tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the **Settings** tab.
```

> 3. Toggle the switch in the *Enable Notifications* section to allow members to subscribe to notifications for the selected source/destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Toggle the switch in the **Enable Notifications** section to allow the members to subscribe to notifications for the selected source/destination.
```

<img src="../assets/rs-cloud/enable-notifications.png" alt="Enable notifications" />

<div class="infoBlock">

> Note that the *Enable Notifications* option is only available to admin users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Enable Notifications** option is only available to the users with admin privileges.
```

</div>

## Manage alerts

> To manage individual alerts per connection, navigate to *Settings* »» *Notifications*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage the individual alerts per connection, navigate to **Settings** > *Notifications*.
```

<img src="../assets/rs-cloud/notification-settings.png" alt="Notification settings" />

> In the notifications area, you can manage your alert subscriptions for errors relating to sources, cloud destinations, and warehouse destinations. Notifications must have been enabled by an admin in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the notifications area, you can manage your alert subscriptions for the errors relating to sources, cloud destinations, and warehouse destinations. The notifications must have been enabled by an admin as described in the <Link to="#enable-notifications-per-connection">previous section</Link>.
```

> From the *Notifications* tab, click the *Manage Subscription* button to toggle on/off subscriptions to all of the sources, destinations, and warehouse destinations your admin has enabled.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the **Notifications** tab, click the **Manage Subscription** button to toggle on/off subscriptions to all of the sources, destinations, and warehouse destinations your admin has enabled.  
```

<img src="../assets/rs-cloud/manage-subscriptions.png" alt="Manage subscriptions" />

> From this view you can toggle your own notifications on or off. Clicking the arrow will take you to the Settings page for that connection. **[IS THIS ONLY FOR ADMIN?]**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this view, you can toggle your own notifications on or off. Clicking the arrow will take you to the settings page for that connection. **[IS THIS ONLY FOR ADMIN?]**

```

## Error types

RudderStack will send email alerts for two types of errors: Datatype mismatch and delivery errors.
See the following tables for error descriptions and the necessary actions to resolve them.
### Datatype mismatch errors

| Error description                                     | Customer actions                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Message Type is not present. Aborting message.        | `event.type` is missing from the payload. Please make sure to include the message type.                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Message Type is not present. Aborting message.        | `event.type` is missing from the payload. Make sure you include the message type.                                                             |
```

> | Event name is required                                | `event.event` is missing from the payload. Please include a valid event name.                                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Event name is required                                | `event.event` is missing from the payload. Include a valid event name.                                                                      |
```

> | Unable to process without `anonymousId` or `userId`     | Please make sure to include all the required fields in the payload for successful delivery of the event.                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Unable to process without `anonymousId` or `userId`     | Make sure to include all the required fields in the payload for successful event delivery.                                        |
```

| Missing required value from `<source key>`              | Please make sure to include any/all of the required fields from the list for successful delivery of the event.                                    |

> | event is required for track call                      | `event.event` is missing from the payload. Please make sure to include a valid event name.                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| event is required for track call                      |  `event.event` is missing from the payload. Make sure to include a valid event name.                                                         |
```

### Delivery errors

| Error description                                     | Customer actions                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Message format type not supported                     | Destination does not support this message type. Please ensure that only the supported event type is passed.                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Message format type not supported                     | The destination does not support this message type. Ensure that you pass only the supported event type.                              |
```

> | Invalid payload for the destination                   | The inputted JSON payload does not match the expected request body.                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Invalid payload for the destination                   | The input JSON payload does not match the expected request body.                                                                               |
```

> | Event is not configured in your RudderStack dashboard | Please make sure to either filter out the event through a user transformation or add a new event in the Ruddertack dashboard.                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Event is not configured in your RudderStack dashboard | Make sure to either filter out the event through a user transformation or add a new event in the RudderStack dashboard.                      |
```

| Inavalid API Key. Aborting message.                   | Please ensure a valid API key has been added to the RudderStack dashboard.                                                                        |

> | Invalid Account Id. Aborting message.                 | Please ensure a valid Account ID key has been added to the RudderStack dashboard.                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Invalid Account Id. Aborting message.                 | Ensure that a valid Account ID key has been added to the RudderStack dashboard.                                                                 |
```

> | `userId` or `email` is mandatory for this request         | Please make sure to include userId/email in the payload for successful delivery of the event.                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `userId` or `email` is mandatory for this request         | Make sure to include `userId`/`email` in the payload for successful event delivery.                                                  |
```
